## File Storage

The server is provided with a `DataDir`. This directory is used to store all
server data. The data is stored is stored in the `data` directory, where every
user has their own directory. Each file and directory has a metadata JSON file.
The file is named `__av_${fname}.json`. Uploading files starting with `__av_` is forbidden.

## Permissions

Permissions are specified in file's metadata. They are inherited through the file
system. There are four permission bits:

- read
- write
- metadata read
- metadata write

There is a special user called `pub`, who anyone can be registered as. Another special user is `root`, who has access to anything, but can't be logged in as.

## Metadata

```
{
  "perms": {
    "username": bit field with permissions
    ...
  },
  "hooks": list of required hooks,
  "createdBy": username of creator,
  "edits": [ // <-- chceme tohle?
    {
      "user": username of editor,
      "date": date time of the edit,
      "note" (optional): note provided by the editor
    }
  ],
  "hook_data": data generated by upload hooks
}
```

## Upload Hooks

Archiiv offers upload hooks functionality, which run some code on the uploaded files.
They can be enabled and configured in the config json. Hooks can either be ran for a
file glob, or they can be specifically requested in the metadata json. In case of directories,
the hooks are ran whenever a file is uploaded to the directory.

### Exif

Extracts exif metadata from the file and puts it into the metadata json.

### Thumbnails

Creates thumbnails from the files.

### Archiver

Backups the file or directory in a compressed archive.

### Exec

Executes an external process.

## API

TODO: figure out auth, I've marked some endpoints with auth. These endpoints
will pass the request to some auth function, which returns some stuff.

### POST(auth) /api/v1/fs/rm

Remove a file or directory. This file requires the user to have rw permissions
for the file.

Input:

```
{ "path": path to file to delete }
```

### POST(auth) /api/v1/fs/mkdir

Make a directory. The directory will have the author's permissions set to 0xff.
This call requires the user to have write permissions for the parent directory.

Input:

```
{ "path": path to directory to create }
```

# server:

- bez database??
  - dirs, files
  - _/.meta/ _ meta info o fotkách (lokace, čas, ..?)
  - _/.thumb/ _ thumbnails
  - _/.permissions _ (edit, add, delete, ..?) per user
  - /.users \* list users, hash hesla?
- link na
  - photo dump do složky
  - photo access
- shared photos between dirs?? symlink?? nebo není potřeba?
- jxl + on demand convert do jpg or smt pro web?

# mobile app:

- upload fotky z množiny složek (může být na button)
- mapování local dir -> remote dir
  - měl by umět vyrábět složky po měsících týden, ...
    - format string setting?
- smazat remotly backed up photos

# misc:

bulk import z google photos tool!!

---

Odsouhlaseno na meetingu:

- configy na disku jsou json
- přes api se posílá json

# server je API

- endpointy

  - uploadnout soubor do složky
    - target dir
    - soubor name
  - list dir tree
  - list files
  - list shared with me (slow probably)
  - get dir permissions
  - set dir permissions

- public fake user

- README per dir

- .users file

  - jenom otp haha?
  - login s username+otp
    - dostane session token [který jdou mazat per device]--(prokop:asi ne)

- user má dir
- per directory inherited .settings

# frontend používá API

# mobil je taky frontend simple

- API do filesystemu
